# cs465-fullstack

# Architecture: Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
As part of the MEAN architecture, the Express HTML, the Angular single-page application (SPA), and JavaScript were used together to create a full-stack web application. Express was used to build the customer side of the web application, using JavaScript to retrieve data from a database to demonstrate information about trips, and Angular was used to create a SPA to allow admins to quickly alter and create trips. Express uses regular web application traits, such as routing to different pages when an action is performed, refreshing and loading in HTML and CSS files when directing to different pages, and only allowing GET requests. On the other side is the SPA which does not require reloading as it is built to change views and functionality directly through the browser without having to render in different files making it faster than the Express page. The Express page relied on JavaScript to route, control, and model data and views to the client-side page while the SPA used TypeScript to route, control, and model data. JavaScript and TypeScript are similar in functionality, except, TypeScript allows objects to be of a specific type, preventing objects from being changed later on. Even with their differences, Express, the SPA, and JavaScript all came together to create a functioning full-stack web application with basic security.
# Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
The backend used a NoSQL database MongoDB because it allows a large collection of data to be stored without having required fields (Academind, 2018). For instance, if a trip were to be added to the database but a price, code, or even picture is in progress or to be determined, the trip could still be added to the database without having a specific attribute, which can later be updated. As a result, data can be quickly added and altered without worrying about field requirements. 
# Functionality: How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Unlike JavaScript which sets up the functionality of a website, such as having alert messages, setting up events with the click of a button, and providing interactivity, JSON is used to create data objects using key and value pairs. These data objects are stored on a database like MongoDB and can then be retrieved by fetching the data using a controller. A JSON response is then returned to demonstrate either the successful retrieval of data or the unsuccessful retrieval of the data. If successful, the data is then demonstrated on the client-side web application using a loop that gets all data in a web app’s HTML file. In other words, JSON can create data, store that data, and communicate with the database to retrieve that data and present it at the frontend of the web application. 
# Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
To reduce HTML sizes and be more efficient, I refactored code to create a separate header and footer file that used the same HTML header and footer styles. Instead of needing to put the same header and footer text on each HTML file, I can just reference each header and footer to create cleaner and more versatile HTML files. When changing data on trips, instead of creating files for each endpoint to GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE trips, I created a trip data service file that routed endpoints for adding trips, editing trips, getting all trips or a single trip using a code, logging an administrator, and registering an administrator. This allows the SPA to route to different destinations to perform various actions, and if additional endpoints are needed, they can be added directly to the trip data service without needing to create a separate routing file. 
# Testing: Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
For a full-stack application, testing to ensure API endpoints for POST, PUT, GET, and DELETE requests are important to ensure proper creation, retrieval, update, and deletion of data within a database. Methods are used for each endpoint to perform a desired action, which can be used to return requests and messages to either confirm the methods’ success or failure by logging the results in the console during the testing of a web application. With the modification of data to display on the client-side page, security will be required to prevent unauthorized users from accessing this data, and to prevent sensitive information from being intercepted. Basic security principles, such as account credentials, multi-factor authentication, VPNs, firewalls, encryption, and security policies are necessary to keep all data secured. 
# Reflection: How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
This course has helped me reach my professional goals because it allowed me to create a web application from the backend and the frontend. Being able to develop full stack is an important skill since it demonstrates my ability to work both on the frontend features of a web application and the backend features of the web application, using tools to communicate each end to each other to create an appealing website with rich functionality. With companies wanting quicker development cycles and more skilled developers, being able to use tools from the MEAN architecture and learning about full stack development helps me stand out from other developers that only specialize on the frontend or the backend. In addition, learning how to test full stack web applications supports my work in creating full stack applications so that I can create polished full stack applications that clients can be impressed with. 

References: 
Academind. (2018, July 25). SQL vs NoSQL or MySQL vs MongoDB [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y  
